# Dysarthric speech recognition
This project repo was developed for my master's in AI capstone project course (A-I 894 Autumn 2024 semester) through Penn State Great Valley. The Jupyter notebooks are intended to demonstrate the end-to-end development process of a working DSR model, which was evaluated with data collected at the Penn State Health Hershey Medical Center in 2023 (dataset henceforth referred to as PSUH). Furthermore, the _psudsr_ module is intended to be used as an imported module to expedite common tasks such as data exploration, data processing (STFT features), dataset creation, and model inferencing. 

# Technical Approach
Dysarthric speech is a known symptom of patients who receive anesthesia. Thus, it is desirable for clinicians to use an AI speech recognition model as an non-invasive diagnostic tool. Audio data from patients undergoing anesthesia treatment were voluntarily recorded speaking the word "Pennsylvania" prior to treatment ("pre"), after treatment ("post"), and at discharge ("dc"). Initially, a severity-level classification model was desired but classification performance was quite poor with the data on hand. Thus, the PSUH examples were reclassed as healthy (pre & dc) vs. dysarthric (post). STFT features were extracted from each sample spectrogram and converted to tensors for input with the PyTorch model. 

#### Disclaimer
Due to patient privacy laws, I am not able to freely share the PSUH dataset and the weights for the ResNet18 model I trained. However, I have committed sample audio files to this repo for demonstration purposes which you may use for academic research purposes only. 
